#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass extbook
\begin_preamble
\input $HOME/Documents/scsu/Book-Linear/preamble
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 1.9cm
\rightmargin 1.5cm
\bottommargin 1.9cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Preface
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
About Tea Time Linear Algebra
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Preface}
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{section}{About Tea Time Numerical Analysis}
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%
\backslash
fancyhead[RE]{Preface}
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%
\backslash
fancyhead[LO]{}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Greetings! And thanks for giving 
\shape italic
Tea Time Linear Algebra
\shape default
 a read.
 The phrase 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

tea time
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is meant to do more than give the book a catchy title.
 It is meant to describe the general nature of the discourse within.
 Much of the material will be presented as if it were being told to a student
 during tea time at University, but with the benefit of careful planning.
 There will be no big blue boxes highlighting the main points, no stream
 of examples after a short introduction to a topic, and no theorem\SpecialChar ldots
proof\SpecialChar ldots
theorem\SpecialChar ldots
pr
oof structure.
 Instead, the necessary terms and definitions and theorems and examples
 will be woven into a more conversational style.
 My hope is that this blend of formal and informal mathematics will be easier
 to digest, and dare I say, students will be more invited to do their reading
 in this format.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Those who enjoy a more typical presentation might still find this textbook
 suits their preference to a large extent.
 There will be a summary of the key concepts at the end of each conversation
 and a number of the exercises will be solved in complete detail in the
 appendix.
 So, one can get a closer-to-typical presentation by scanning for theorems
 in the conversations, reading the key concepts, and then skipping to the
 exercises with solutions.
 I hope most readers won't choose to do so, but it is an option.
 In any case, the exercises with solutions will be critical reading for
 most.
 Learning by example is often the most effective means.
 After reading a section, or at least scanning it, readers are strongly
 encouraged to skip to the statements of the exercises with solutions (marked
 by 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

 
\backslash
hasasolution 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

 
\backslash
haspartwithsolution
\end_layout

\end_inset

), contemplate their solutions, solve them if they can, and then turn to
 the back of the book for full disclosure.
 The hope is that, with their placement in the appendix, readers will be
 more apt to consider solving the exercises on their own before looking
 at the solutions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The topical coverage in 
\shape italic
Tea Time Numerical Analysis
\shape default
 is fairly typical.
 The book starts with an introductory chapter, followed by root finding
 methods, interpolation (part 1), numerical calculus, interpolation (part
 2), and the second edition introduces a chapter on differential equations.
 The first five chapters cover what, at SCSU, constitutes a first semester
 course in numerical analysis.
 As this book is intended for use as a free download or an inexpensive print-on-
demand volume, no effort has been made to keep the page count low or to
 spare copious diagrams and colors.
 In fact, I have taken the inexpensive mode of delivery as liberty to do
 quite the opposite.
 I have added many passages and diagrams that are not strictly necessary
 for the study of numerical analysis, but are at least peripherally related,
 and may be of interest to some readers.
 Most of these passages will be presented as digressions, so they will be
 easy to identify.
 For example, Taylor's theorem plays such a central role in the subject
 that not only its statement is presented.
 Its proof and a bit of history are added as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

crumpets
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Of course they can be skipped, but are included to provide a more complete
 understanding of this fundamental theorem of numerical analysis.
 For another example, as a fan of dynamical systems, I found it impossible
 to refrain from including a section on visualizing Newton's method.
 The powerful and beautiful pictures of Newton's method as a dynamical system
 should be eyebrow-raising and question-provoking even if only tangentially
 important.
 There are, of course, other examples of somewhat less critical content,
 but each is there to enhance the reader's understanding or appreciation
 of the subject, even if the material is not strictly necessary for an introduct
ory study of numerical analysis.
 While version 2.5 does not introduce any new sections, it contains many
 corrections, new exercises and modified discourse.
 As a result, page and exercise numbering has changed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Implementation of the numerical methods in the form of computer code will
 also be discussed.
 While one could simply ignore the programming sections and exercises and
 still get something out of this text, it is my firm belief that full appreciati
on for the content can not be achieved without getting one's hands 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

dirty
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 by doing some programming.
 It would be nice if readers have had at least some minimal exposure to
 programming whether it be Python, Java, C, web programming, or just about
 anything, but I have made every effort to give enough detail so that even
 those who have never written a single line of code will be able to participate
 in this part of the study.
 In keeping with the desire to produce a completely free learning experience,
 GNU Octave was chosen as the programming language for this book.
 GNU Octave (Octave for short) is offered freely to anyone and everyone!
 It is free to download and use.
 Its source code is free to download and study.
 And anyone is welcome to modify or add to the code if so inclined.
 As an added bonus, users of the much better-known MATLAB will not be burdened
 by learning a new language.
 Octave is a MATLAB clone.
 By design, nearly any program written in MATLAB will run in Octave without
 modification.
 So, if you have access to MATLAB and would prefer to use it, you may do
 so without worry.
 I have made considerable effort to ensure that every line of Octave in
 this book will run verbatim under MATLAB.
 Even with this earnest effort, though, it is possible that some of the
 code will not run under MATLAB.
 It has only been tested in Octave! If you find any code that does not run
 in MATLAB, please let me know.
 Version 2.5 includes substantial rewriting of details related to Octave
 from installation to coding, and even includes information about computing
 in the cloud.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I hope you enjoy your reading of 
\shape italic
Tea Time Numerical Analysis
\shape default
.
 It was my pleasure to write it.
 Feedback is always welcome.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace bigskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset space \hfill{}
\end_inset

 
\begin_inset space \hfill{}
\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Tabular
<lyxtabular version="3" rows="2" columns="1">
<features tabularvalignment="middle">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top">
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Leon Q.
 Brin
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
brinl1@southernct.edu
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset space \hfill{}
\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
How to Get Sage
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{section}{How to Get Octave}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Just use sagecell.sagemath.com
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
How to Get the Code
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{section}{How to Get the Code}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All the code appearing in the textbook can be downloaded from this textbook's
 companion website,
\begin_inset Separator latexpar
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center
\begin_inset Flex URL
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://lqbrin.github.io/tea-time-numerical/ancillaries.html
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
The code printed within and accompanying Tea Time Numerical Analysis electronica
lly is distributed under the GNU Public License (GPL).
 Details are available at the website.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{section}{Acknowledgments}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I gratefully acknowledge the generous support I received during the writing
 of this textbook, from the patience my immediate family, Amy, Cecelia,
 and Victorija exercised while I was absorbed by my laptop's screen, to
 the willingness of my Spring 2013 Seminar class, Elizabeth Field, Rachael
 Ivison, Amanda Reyher, and Steven Warner to read and criticize an early
 version of the first chapter.
 The Woodbridge Public Library staff, especially Pamela Wilonski, helped
 provide a peaceful and inspirational environment for writing the bulk of
 the first edition text.
 Many thanks to Dick Pelosi for his extensive review and many kind words
 and encouragements throughout the endeavor to create the first edition.
 I also owe a hearty thanks to the folks at CollegeOpenTextbooks.org, who
 provided unpaid copy editing.
 Finally, many thanks to the users who have provided corrections and suggestions
 for improvements.
 A number of them have found their way into the third edition.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
